Fluence CLI
===

A tool that makes working with Fluence network more convenient

## Table of contents:

<!-- toc -->
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Currently supported workflow example](#currently-supported-workflow-example)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Commands](#commands)
<!-- tocstop -->

# Prerequisites

- Linux or MacOS (currently have some bugs on windows)
- [Node.js >=16.0.0](https://nodejs.org/)

# Usage

<!-- usage -->
```sh-session
$ npm install -g @fluencelabs/cli
$ fluence COMMAND
running command...
$ fluence (--version)
@fluencelabs/cli/0.0.0 linux-x64 node-v16.14.0
$ fluence --help [COMMAND]
USAGE
  $ fluence COMMAND
...
```
<!-- usagestop -->

# Currently supported workflow example

A lot of what is described next will be improved and automated in the future (key-management etc.) Currently Fluence CLI is a convenience wrapper around Aqua CLI and Marine

1. Run `fluence init` to initialize new project
2. Run `fluence service add 'https://github.com/fluencelabs/services/blob/master/adder.tar.gz?raw=true'`. Config `fluence.yaml` in the root of the project directory will be updated to look like this:
```yaml
version: 1
services:
  adder:
    get: https://github.com/fluencelabs/services/blob/master/adder.tar.gz?raw=true
    deploy:
      - deployId: default
```
`deployId` can be any string. It must start with a lowercase letter and contain only letters, numbers, and underscores. It also must be unique service-wise. It is used in aqua to access ids of deployed services as you will see in a moment.
You can edit `fluence.yaml` manually if you want to deploy multiple times, deploy on specific network, deploy on specific peerId or if you want to override `service.yaml`

3. Run `fluence service new ./src/services/newService` to generate new service template. You will be asked if you want to add the service to `fluence.yaml` - say yes.
4. Run `fluence service repl newService` to get service into the repl
5. Run `fluence deploy` to deploy the application you described in `fluence.yaml`. Services written in rust will be automatically built before deployment. User-level secret key from `~/.fluence/secrets.yaml` will be used to deploy each service (can be overridden using `-k` flag). You can also add project-level secret key to your project `.fluence/secrets.yaml` manually (key-pair management coming soon)
6. Write some aqua in `src/aqua/main.aqua`. Example `src/aqua/main.aqua`:
```aqua
module Main

import App from "deployed.app.aqua"

export App, add_one

service AddOne:
    add_one: u64 -> u64

func add_one(value: u64) -> u64:
    services <- App.services()

    on services.adder.default!.peerId:
        AddOne services.adder.default!.serviceId
        res <- AddOne.add_one(value)
    <- res
```
`"deployed.app.aqua"` file is located at `.fluence/aqua/deployed.app.aqua`. `App.services()` method returns ids of the previously deployed services that you can use in your aqua code (this info is stored at `.fluence/app.yaml`.

7. Run `fluence run -f 'add_one(1)'`. (function with this name will be searched inside the `src/aqua/main.aqua` (can be overridden with `--input` flag) and executed). 
Alternatively, if you are js developer - import generated `registerApp` function from `.fluence/ts/app.ts` or `.fluence/js/app.js` and execute it after `Fluence.run()` in your js application in order to give access to deployed services ids to your aqua code. Then compile `src/aqua/main.aqua` using Aqua CLI. Import and run `add_one(1)` in your js code.
8. Run `fluence remove` to remove the previously deployed fluence application 


# Contributing

To run cli in development mode use: `./bin/dev`

To run cli in production mode run `npm run build` first, then use: `./bin/run`

If you are using nvm and want to commit using VSCode - place `.huskyrc` file to your Home directory

Don't name arguments or flags with names that contain underscore symbols, because autogenerated links in markdown will not work

pre-commit runs each time before you commit. It includes prettier and generates this README.md file. 
If you want README.md file to be correctly generated please don't forget to run `npm run build` before committing

Pull request and release process:
1. Run `npm run check` to make sure everything ok with the code
2. Only after that commit your changes to trigger pre-commit hook that updates `README.md`. Read `README.md` to make sure it is correctly updated
3. Push your changes
4. Create pull request and merge your changes to `main`
5. Switch to `main` locally and pull merged changes
6. Run `git tag -a v0.0.0 -m ""` with version number that you want instead of `0.0.0`
7. Run `git push origin v0.0.0` with version number that you want instead of `0.0.0` to trigger release

# Commands

<!-- commands -->
* [`fluence autocomplete [SHELL]`](#fluence-autocomplete-shell)
* [`fluence help [COMMAND]`](#fluence-help-command)

## `fluence autocomplete [SHELL]`

display autocomplete installation instructions

```
USAGE
  $ fluence autocomplete [SHELL] [-r]

ARGUMENTS
  SHELL  shell type

FLAGS
  -r, --refresh-cache  Refresh cache (ignores displaying instructions)

DESCRIPTION
  display autocomplete installation instructions

EXAMPLES
  $ fluence autocomplete

  $ fluence autocomplete bash

  $ fluence autocomplete zsh

  $ fluence autocomplete --refresh-cache
```

_See code: [@oclif/plugin-autocomplete](https://github.com/oclif/plugin-autocomplete/blob/v1.3.0/src/commands/autocomplete/index.ts)_

## `fluence help [COMMAND]`

Display help for fluence.

```
USAGE
  $ fluence help [COMMAND] [-n]

ARGUMENTS
  COMMAND  Command to show help for.

FLAGS
  -n, --nested-commands  Include all nested commands in the output.

DESCRIPTION
  Display help for fluence.
```

_See code: [@oclif/plugin-help](https://github.com/oclif/plugin-help/blob/v5.1.12/src/commands/help.ts)_
<!-- commandsstop -->
